Product Discovery Drop-in 2.0 (#413)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/product-discovery/containers/sort-by.mdx

---
title: SortBy container
description: Learn about the SortBy container and configurations for the Product Discovery drop-in component v2.0.0.
---

import OptionsTable from '@components/OptionsTable.astro';

> The `SortBy` container provides sorting options and manages sort state for search results. It offers customizable sort criteria, automatic sort state management, and supports both default and custom sort options for different use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SortBy container manages sorting for search results, offers customizable criteria, and automatically maintains sort state for both default and custom options.
```

- **Automatic Updates**: Sort state updates automatically with search parameters
- **Search Integration**: Sort changes trigger new search calls with updated parameters
- **State Persistence**: Sort preferences maintained across search requests

### Scope Support

The SortBy container supports isolated instances through scope configuration:

```javascript
// Global scope (default) Listens to all search events
await provider.render(SortBy)($container);

// Only listens to events with scope: 'popover'
await provider.render(SortBy, { scope: 'popover' })($container);
```

## Real-time Updates

The container automatically updates when search events are received:

1. **Search Results**: Updates sort options based on available attributes
2. **Sort Changes**: Automatically triggers new searches with updated sort

## Integration Examples

### Basic PLP Setup

```javascript
await provider.render(SortBy, {
  onSortChange: (value) => {
    console.log('Sort order changed:', value);
  }
})($sortByContainer);
```

## Best Practices

1. **Scope Management**: Use unique scope identifiers for multiple instances
2. **Sort Callbacks**: Use `onSortChange` for custom sort handling

> 3. **Real-time Updates**: Let the container handle updates automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Real-time Updates**: Let the container manage updates automatically.
```
